Start coding style guide. (#2196)
wireapp/wire-server: docs/src/developer/developer/coding-style.md

# The wire-server Coding Style Guide

This document contains a collection of rules as they emerge from
day-to-day discussions.  If you are unhappy with anything, open a PR
and trigger a discussion.  Coding style PRs of course should be
reviewed by more or less the entire team if feasible.

These rules are by no means enforced consistently at the time of
writing them down, but they are offer a way to avoid debate when
reviewing current pull requests: if there is more than one way of
doing things, whoever can point to a rule in this document wins the
argument.

Where feasible and if there is time, rules should be enforced
automatically.

### Integer literals

Integer literals are spelled `50_000` (not `50 * 1000` and not
`50000`).  (NB: ghc allows to write things like `40_0000`, which makes

> sense eg. in Chinese.  This is illegal in this code base for obvious
> reasons.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sense eg. in Chinese.  However, this codebase requires underscores
after every 3 digits.)
```

Might not be very obvious a Chinese person (or a South Asian person)

Reviewer: I tried to find the name of this millions, billions, trillions numeral system, but I couldn't.

### Libraries and dependencies

Instead of the standard `Prelude`, we use the module `Imports` from
`/libs/imports/`.  (Exception: see below.)

`/integration` has some restrictions on what it may depend on:

- `/libs/imports` (there is some ongoing debate whether that exception should be removed, though.)
- `/libs/wire-api` (compiling wire-api takes longer, and there was a small majority in favor of testing serialization here, not (only) in golden tests.)

`string-conversions` is forbidden for production code, since some of
the transformations throw impure exceptions (notably `ByteString` to
`Text`).  It's ok to use it in test code.

> also go through the C&D history and pick details on that, and other decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is not accessible publically, anyway the reasoning is not very detailed in the C&D notes.

Author: sorry, this was a TODO that i forgot to remove.

### Module boundaries

All modules must have explicit export lists.  Reasons:

- This is good documentation;
- it helps with identifying dead code (if it's not exported and not used, we get a compiler warning); and

> - prevents us from using functions that aren't part of a module's interface by accident: if we *want* to use them, we can always add them, but then we are transparent about changing the interface.

Reviewer 2: it also helps the compiler with optimizations across module boundaries. :)

Author: thanks!  5db31f5015732882525acb31c5a0108e3fb8cdab

These rules are by no means enforced consistently at the time of
writing them down, but they are offer a way to avoid debate when
reviewing current pull requests: if there is more than one way of
doing things, whoever can point to a rule in this document wins the
argument.

Where feasible and if there is time, rules should be enforced
automatically.  What we can enforce in code does not need to be
covered here.  The style guide is for things we don't (yet) enforce in
other ways.

### Integer literals

Integer literals are spelled `50_000` (not `50 * 1000` and not
`50000`).  (NB: ghc allows to write things like `40_0000`, which makes
sense eg. in Chinese.  This is illegal in this code base for obvious
reasons.)

### Libraries and dependencies

Instead of the standard `Prelude`, we use the module `Imports` from
`/libs/imports/`.  (Exception: see below.)

`/integration` has some restrictions on what it may depend on:

- `/libs/imports` (there is some ongoing debate whether that exception should be removed, though.)
- `/libs/wire-api` (compiling wire-api takes longer, and there was a small majority in favor of testing serialization here, not (only) in golden tests.)

> 

Reviewer 3: let's migrate the README of integrations (or at least the guidlines) here and ask for review? the not compiling `wire-api` is still up for debate I think

Author: > the not compiling `wire-api` is still up for debate I think

it's currently the law, even if some are opposed to the rule.  i would leave it in, and take it out *after* we've changed our mind.

Author: > let's migrate the README of integrations (or at least the guidlines) here and ask for review?

yes, but not in the initial version?

These rules are by no means enforced consistently at the time of
writing them down, but they are offer a way to avoid debate when
reviewing current pull requests: if there is more than one way of
doing things, whoever can point to a rule in this document wins the
argument.

Where feasible and if there is time, rules should be enforced
automatically.  What we can enforce in code does not need to be
covered here.  The style guide is for things we don't (yet) enforce in
other ways.

### Integer literals

Integer literals are spelled `50_000` (not `50 * 1000` and not
`50000`).  (NB: ghc allows to write things like `40_0000`, which makes
sense eg. in Chinese.  This is illegal in this code base for obvious
reasons.)

### Libraries and dependencies

Instead of the standard `Prelude`, we use the module `Imports` from
`/libs/imports/`.  (Exception: see below.)

`/integration` has some restrictions on what it may depend on:

- `/libs/imports` (there is some ongoing debate whether that exception should be removed, though.)
- `/libs/wire-api` (compiling wire-api takes longer, and there was a small majority in favor of testing serialization here, not (only) in golden tests.)

> 

Reviewer: missing: hscim and http2-manager. These libraries are or want to be on hackage, it doesn't make sense to depend on imports.

Author: ...  unless we want to publish imports? :)

yeah, i'll add these exceptions.  we can always change it.

Reviewer: It will increase deps of these libraries so it won't be a good idea.

`string-conversions` is forbidden for production code, since some of
the transformations throw impure exceptions (notably `ByteString` to
`Text`).  It's ok to use it in test code.

also go through the C&D history and pick details on that, and other decisions.

### Module boundaries

All modules must have explicit export lists.  Reasons:

- This is good documentation;
- it helps with identifying dead code (if it's not exported and not used, we get a compiler warning); and

> - prevents us from using functions that aren't part of a module's interface by accident: if we *want* to use them, we can always add them, but then we are transparent about changing the interface.

Reviewer: IMO this causes too much chore work and the reasons are very weak:
1. The docs are going to be there anyway
2. We should probs just use weeder to do this
3. What does prevention bring anyway?

> it also helps the compiler with optimizations across module boundaries. :)

Sure, but the cost is wasting developer time. I'm willing to bet that these optimizations are not as useful as my time.

Author: ok, i'll remove it.  just non-controversial stuff for now.  (i *really* hope that set is non-empty...)
